h1. Digial Ocean Command Line Client

h3. Roadmap / *TODO*

Documentation: both a basic manual and help text for the application (scrape some of this from the on-line html guide?).

Factor the HTTP Api into a re-useable library, separate the command line interface and formatting of results into a separate module.  The command line interface deals with configuration, input and output.  The light-weight api abstracts the HTTP interface.

Support json output in addition to tab delimited output.  This would be useful in conjunction with tools like "jq":http://stedolan.github.io/jq/.

h5. API Support

* Droplets
** [DONE] Show All Active Droplets
** [DONE] New Droplet
** [DONE] Show Droplet (sans backups and snapshots)
** [*TODO*] Show Droplet: Backups
** [*TODO*] Show Droplet :Snapshots
** [*TODO*] Reboot Droplet
** [*TODO*] Power Cycle Droplet
** [*TODO*] Shut Down Droplet
** [*TODO*] Power Off
** [*TODO*] Power On
** [*TODO*] Reset Root Password
** [*TODO*] Resize Droplet
** [*TODO*] Take a Snapshot
** [*TODO*] Restore Droplet
** [*TODO*] Rebuild Droplet
** [*TODO*] Rename Droplet
** [DONE] Destroy Droplet

* Regions
** [*TODO*] All Regions

* Images
** [DONE] All Images
** [DONE] Show Image
** [*TODO*] Destroy Image
** [*TODO*] Transfer Image

* SSH Keys
** [*TODO*] All SSH Keys
** [*TODO*] Add SSH Keys
** [*TODO*] Show SSH Keys
** [*TODO*] Edit SSH Keys
** [*TODO*] Destroy SSH Keys

* Sizes
** [DONE] All Sizes

* Domains
** [*TODO*] All Domains
** [*TODO*] New Domain
** [*TODO*] Domain Show
** [*TODO*] Destroy Domain
** [*TODO*] All Domain Records
** [*TODO*] New Domain Record
** [*TODO*] Show Domain Record
** [*TODO*] Edit Domain Record
** [*TODO*] Destroy Domain Record

* Events
* DONE Show Event
* DONE Wait For Event (percentage=100)

h3. Roadmap:

* re-implement DoDropletsLsDroplet using structs
* implement 'events wait :event_id'

h3. References

* http://blog.equanimity.nl/blog/2013/05/29/a-beginners-guide-to-erlang/
* https://developers.digitalocean.com/sizes/
* https://developers.digitalocean.com/images/
