h1. Ubuntu Started using Unity for 12.04, 12.10

Sorry, no.  I'm going to have to move away.

Especially Inside VirtualBox it is just too slow, the Alt-Tab behavior is
different enough that my twitch reflexes can't adapt to it.  The Unity taskbar
just seems to be in my way.

"Openbox":http://openbox.org/ is an alternative I'm exploring.

Install openbox:

    sudo apt-get install openbox

"Openbox: Bindings":http://openbox.org/wiki/Help:Bindings

This directory contains my OpenBox configuration.  It can be installed by typing 'rake', which will also call @openbox --reconfigure'@.

h2. The setup I like

h3. Desktops

I like having 10 desktops and using each one (as possible) for a specific set
of tasks, like devloping a particular service or library.

* 1  administration, local or remote
* 2  browser and front-end web development
* 3  primary/core services
* 4  some other service
* 5  data store (DDL, Schema manipulation, etc)
* 6  reporting, analytics systems
* 7  devops
* 8  client facing web site
* 9  integratin testing suites and tools
* 10 primary user facing services

At $WORK, I like following a convention of assigning a project to a particular
desktop.  That way I always know where things are.

h3. Mouse Focus

I love focus follows mouse.  I like being able to have a smaller terminal
'float' on top of a larger one, and be typing and interacting with the lower
one.

I love being able to hold down Alt and drag windows around from any pixel
inside the window.

h3. Keybindings

* C-F12 open a gnome-terminal
* A-Home toggle maximization
* A-Right toggle maximization horizontal
* A-Up toggle maximization vertical
* A-1 go to desktop 1
* A-2 go to desktop 2
* A-3 go to desktop 3
* A-4 go to desktop 4
* A-5 go to desktop 5
* A-6 go to desktop 6
* A-7 go to desktop 7
* A-8 go to desktop 8
* A-9 go to desktop 9
* A-10 go to desktop 10

